WIP: Update CONTRIBUTING.md for new developers (#222)
department-for-transport-BODS/bods: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to BODS

## Pre-requisites

- The BODS application can run inside and outside of Docker
- We recommend using Docker for the database, celery workers/beat scheduler/flower,
  clam av scanner and django service

## Setup

To get started clone the repository

```sh

git clone git@github.com:department-for-transport-BODS/bods.git

> cd ./bods2

Reviewer: `bods2` ??

```

For the project to build and start correctly several environment variables need
to be set.
We use a `.env` to set the variables.
Make a copy of `./config/.env.local.template` in the root directory of the
project, call this file `.env`.

```sh
cp config/.env.local.template .env 
```

Open the `.env` file and set the `UID` and `GID` to `1000`.
Build the project using `docker-compose`.

```sh
docker-compose build
```

> This will take awhile to complete.

Reviewer: a while

Once completed we can start and initialise the dockerised postgres database.

```sh
docker-compose up postgres
```

This will start the database in the foreground, after a minute or so you should see
the following message.

```sh
LOG:  database system is ready to accept connections
```

This indicates that database has been initialised correctly and has started
successfully.

Use `Ctrl+c` to stop the docker container.

> Next we need to apply our Django applications migrations to the database to do this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next we need to apply our Django applications migrations to the database. To do this
```

> lets first bring the database container back up, but this time run it in the

Reviewer: let's??

background.

```sh
docker-compose up -d postgres
```

After a few seconds you should see the postgres container running when you run

```sh
docker-compose ps
```

Next we'll using the `docker-compose run` command to run the Django `migrate` command.

```sh
docker-compose run django python manage.py migrate
```

You will now be able to create a super user. This will ask for a username, email
and password.

```sh
docker-compose run django python manage.py createsuperuser
```

Now that the superuser has been created you can login to the Django Admin site to
ensure everything is running correctly.
First start the application containers.

```sh
docker-compose up
```

> Navigate to [admin.localhost:8000/admin](http://admin.localhost:8000/admin) an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to [admin.localhost:8000/admin](http://admin.localhost:8000/admin) and
```

login with username and password you have previously created.

There are a few Celery tasks that need to be run to populate the application
with data.

Navigate to the [Periodic Tasks](http://admin.localhost:8000/admin/django_celery_beat/periodictask/)

> in the Djang Admin.

Reviewer: `Djang`

> Select the checkbox for the following period tasks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the checkbox for the following periodic tasks
```

- `run_naptan_etl`
- `update_bods_xsd_zip_files`

Select `Run selected tasks` from the dropdown and click `Go`.

These tasks will populate the tables storing NaPTAN data and also fetch the schema
files required to perform schema checks.

## OTC Dataset

BODS utilises the Office of Traffic Commissioners Bus Service dataset for
Compliance and Monitoring functionality.
To synchronise BODS with this data there are two Celery Tasks that need to be run.

  1. task_get_all_otc_data
  2. task_refresh_otc_data

The first task should be run once on setup to ensure the BODS OTC tables are
populated and the second task should be run periodically to ensure data stays

> up to date.

Reviewer 2: Worth a warning to say that the first task takes several hours to complete. (I think it took about 6 hours when I ran it).

**Note**. Before running these tasks ensure the OTC environment variables are

> correctly set in the `.env` file.

Reviewer 2: How will a new user know what the correct OTC variables are? You need to name them.

Author: They're in the .env template in the OTC section

Reviewer 2: What I mean is, how will a new user know that "the OTC environment variables are correctly set", or do you just mean, check they're present?

Author: Just check that they are set in the .env.

## Create a Publisher Account

1. Navigate to [BODS Admin section](http://admin.localhost:8000/)
2. Click [Organisation management](http://admin.localhost:8000/organisations/)
3. Click the [Add new organisation](http://admin.localhost:8000/organisations/new/)
   button
4. Complete the form with "fake" data (make sure the Key contact email is completed)
5. This will send an email to the [MailHog inbox](http://localhost:8025/)
6. Follow the instructions in the email to create a new publisher account, it's
   recommended that you open the link in Incognito/privacy mode
7. Complete the form with a password

> 8. Your publisher acount is created and you can now publish a timetable.

Reviewer: account

> ## Publish a Timeable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Publish a Timetable
```

Publishing a timetable is a good way to check that you have everything setup end
to end.

1. Find a timetable on the production [BODS site](https://data.bus-data.dft.gov.uk/timetable/)
2. Download a good quality timetable that is in a Published and Compliant Status
3. Navigate to the [BODS Publish](http://publish.localhost:8000/) site
4. Select the Timetables radio button and click Continue
5. Fill in the Data set description text boxes
6. Select the Upload data set to Bus Open Data Service radio button and click the
   Choose file button

> 7. Select a timetable data set to upload and click Continue

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Select the timetable data set you downloaded above, and click Continue
```

> 8. After awhile the pipeline will complete and you can publish the data set.

Reviewer: a while

to be set.
We use a `.env` to set the variables.
Make a copy of `./config/.env.local.template` in the root directory of the
project, call this file `.env`.

```sh
cp config/.env.local.template .env 
```

Open the `.env` file and set the `UID` and `GID` to `1000`.
Build the project using `docker-compose`.

```sh
docker-compose build
```

This will take a while to complete.
Once completed we can start and initialise the dockerised postgres database.

```sh
docker-compose up postgres
```

This will start the database in the foreground, after a minute or so you should see
the following message.

```sh
LOG:  database system is ready to accept connections
```

This indicates that database has been initialised correctly and has started
successfully.

Use `Ctrl+c` to stop the docker container.

Next we need to apply our Django applications migrations to the database. To do this
let's first bring the database container back up, but this time run it in the
background.

```sh
docker-compose up -d postgres
```

After a few seconds you should see the postgres container running when you run

```sh
docker-compose ps
```

> Next we'll using the `docker-compose run` command to run the Django `migrate` command.

Reviewer 3: Should be `we'll be using` or `we'll use`
